xx MOBY-DICK 

' " My God ! Mr. Chace, what is the matter ? " I answered, 
" We have been stove by a whale." ! 

Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship 
Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and 
finally destroyed by a large Sperm Whale in 
the Pacific Ocean. By Owen Chace of Nan- 
tucket, first mate of said vessel. New York, 
1821. 

' A mariner sat in the shrouds one night, 

The wind was piping free ; 

Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, 
And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale, 
As it floundered in the sea.' 

Elizabeth Oakes Smith. 

' The quantity of line withdrawn from the different boats 
engaged in the capture of this one whale, amounted alto- 
gether to 10,440 yards or nearly six English miles. * * * 

t Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the 
air, which, cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of 
three or four miles.' Scoresby. 

1 Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, 
the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over ; he rears his 
enormous head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at every- 
thing around him ; he rushes at the boats with his head ; 
they are propelled before him with vast swiftness, and some- 
times utterly destroyed. 

* * * It is a matter of great astonishment that the 
consideration of the habits of so interesting, and, in a com- 
mercial point of view, of so important an animal (as the Sperm 
Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have 
excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of 
them competent observers, that of late years must have 
possessed the most abundant and the most convenient oppor- 
tunities of witnessing their habitudes. 5 

Thomas Beale's History of the Sperm Whale. 1839. 

' The Cachalot ' (Sperm Whale) ' is not only better armed 
than the True Whale ' (Greenland or Right Whale) ' in possess- 
ing a formidable weapon at either extremity of its body, 
but also more frequently displays a disposition to employ 
these weapons offensively, and in a manner at once so artful, 
